David Dias's Curriculum Vitae
=============================

## Skills and Interests

cloud computing, peer-to-peer networks, information security, information retrieval, communication networks and entrepreneurship

JavaScript (ES5, ES6, node.js)
Python, C, C#, Java
CSS3 & HTML5
Networks Programming
Notions of Photoshop & Illustrator

languages: portuguese (native), english (professional), spanish (basic)

## Experience (Work Activities)

**2015 ~ (present) Protocol Labs - Palo Alto, USA Peer-to-Peer Software Engineer**

**2015 ~ (present) Instituto Superior Técnico, University of Lisbon - Lisbon - Invited Lecturer**

- Developed and Delivered a new class, Modern Web Development Course, for the 'Information Systems for the Enterprise' degree.

**2014 & 2015 &yet - Lisbon - WA, USA Node.js Developer, Junior Pentester, Business Development Lead.**

Some achievements:

- Development the ‘nsp‘vulnerable dependency checker and respective ecosystem of modules - https://www.npmjs.com/package/nsp
- Tripled the amount of revenue generated by the Lift Security team by restructuring and optimizing the business development process.
- Sucessfully develop and deliver the first Node.js Security Training, helping several teams deliver better code.

**2014 & 2015 INESC-ID - Lisbon - P2P and Web Researcher at the Distributed Systems Department (http://www.gsd.inesc-id.pt/)**

- Developed first Browser WebRTC based DHT, achieving resource sharing through several machines using the WebPlatform
- Published: http://www.gsd.inesc-id.pt/~lveiga/papers/msc-supervised-thesis-abstracts/DDias-THESIS%20DOCUMENT%20FINAL.pdf

**2013 & 2014 The Node Firm, Lisbon - San Francisco Node.js Engineer**

Backend developer, focused on Node.js development. 
Letter of recomendation: http://thenodefirm.com/blog/2014/01/31/david-dias-joins-nodesecurity/index.html

**2013 The Node Firm, Lisbon - San Francisco Summer Internship.**

Backend developer.

**2012 - 2013 -  2014 LXJS - Lisbon Javascript Conference Curator.**

2 day conference, for the community, by the community and not for profit about
the new worlds of Javascript.

What people said so far:

- Jan Lehnardt (JSConfEU Lead): “LxJS was a riot. A must-attend conference.
Much <3 to the team for put this together”
- James Chesters (10gen Community Lead): “LxJS is easily one of the best
conferences I’ve been to, ever. Being community organised and not-for-profit
makes it all the better”

**2013 The Startup Scholarship, Lisbon Co-Founder and COO.**

The Y combinator of startup internship, summer school and community immersion
program for international students to experience in Lisbon.

The Startup Scholarship is a unique 9-week summer program in Lisbon, Portugal, in collaboration with the Kairos Society Portugal, that allows selected applicants to experience an internship at a fast pace growing Startup in Lisbon, an entrepreneurship summer classes program with invited professors from top business and engineering Universities in Portugal and a full immersion in the Startup community in Lisbon, with networking sessions, events and exclusive access throughout the program period.

**2012 Run & Slide Summer Camp, Portugal Summer Job - Teenager Entretainer and Coordinator.**

Coordinated a team of 10 young individuals in 15 days non-stop outdoor activities.

My duties in this summer job was to lead a team of young teenagers (13 to 14 years) in a set of activities, working as a team and making sure that everything is running fine. In parallel to this, I also had to prepare the activities, that include: outdoor, play-acting, improvising, workshops and more to entertain the teens.

## Research

**2014 & 2015 SynergyVM - Research Scholarship**

The Synergy-VM project aims at investigating how to ease the application development in clusters of multi-core machines. It proposes to provide the programmer with a single system image over a cluster of multi-core nodes, allowing the programs running in the different nodes to share a set of objects, and making use of the transactional paradigm to control the overall system consistency.i Project Type: National basic research or R&D projects. Funding Entity: FCT / MCTES. Total Funding Amount: 115K €
browserCloudJS was developed in the scope of the SynergyVM projec

**2012 IST, UTL Computer Science Department, Lisbon - Research Scholarship.**

Developed productivity training based on software tools for high school teachers
and college freshmen.
Researched productivity techniques and habits, that can help anyone to get their job done efficiently by using the right tools and mind set. The other part of this scholarship is to convert this research to courses that are lectured to professors who want to enhance their productivity

**2011 IST, UTL Math Department, Lisbon - Research Scholarship**

Develop and maintained several parts of the Math Department infrastructure, implementing new services.

#### Other Academic Research

**2013 - padiFS - A flexible, p2p inspired, Distributed File System**

- paper https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-PADI/blob/master/Paper/grupo11-65963-65994-65998.pdf
- code: https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-PADI

**2013 - Search engine for Politics Lovers**

- paper: https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-EADW/blob/master/report/eadwReport.pdf
- code https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-EADW

**2013 - NearTweet - A Twitter clone for mobile mesh networks using Wifi P2P (later renamed to Wifi Direct)**

- paper: https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-CMOV/blob/master/project/FINAL%20RELEASE/cmov-grupo5-65963-68206-63503.pdf
- code: https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-CMOV/blob/master/project/FINAL%20RELEASE/cmov-grupo5-65963-68206-63503.zip
like firechat, but 2 years before

**2012 - CloudWeather - Processing Weather Data on demand with AWS services, a state of Cloud Computing Survey**

- paper: https://github.com/diasdavid/MERC-CC/blob/master/report/Projecto.pdf
- code: https://github.com/diasdavid/MERC-CC

**2012 - Godfather - P2P based botnet using Pastry routing algorithm and Planet Lab decentralized network**

- paper: https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-SIRS/blob/master/godfather%20-%20A%20Peer-to-Peer%20botnet.pdf
- presentation: https://github.com/diasdavid/METI-SIRS/blob/master/godfather%20-%20presentation.pdf

## Service

**2013 IEEE Computer Society, EMEA Membership Development Coordinator for R8(EMEA).**

Created the CS Trainings Program, a student trainers network to propagate extra expertises amongst EMEA universities.

**2012-2013 Google Student Ambassador, Europe Student Representative.**

Organized the first Google DevFest in Portugal, one of the biggest DevFest in the World, 220 Developers, 24 hour hackathon, 16 technical hands on sessions from professionals of Web Development and Mobile Development.
Won the GSA Google+ Competition.

**2011-2012 IEEE-IST Student Branch, Lisbon Chairperson.**

Achievements:
- 33% Increase in active members (first time over 10%).
- 750% increase in activities (from 4 a year to 30 a year).
- Most successful Teacher-In-Service Program in the world.

**2010-2012 IEEE Portugal Section, Portugal Web master.**

Maintained and migrated all webpages from a Free BSD instance on SUN Spark machine to a newer Intel based server running Ubuntu Server

**2012-2013 Organizer Google Developer Group Portugal**

Achievements:

- Grown a Community to 100 member in less than 24 hours, 200 in less than 9 days;
- 287% Followers Increase in the First Month;
- Organizer of 1st Google DevFest in Portugal;

**2010-2011 IEEE-IST Student Branch, Lisbon - Secretary**

Created TISP 2.0 (http://www.ieee-ist.org/tisp), teaching high schoolers what is engineering by making them do engineering mind set tasks

**2010-2011 NEERCI - Secretary**

NEERCI-IST is a non-profit that aims to bring together students of Engineering Degree in Communication Networks (LERC) and the Masters Engineering Communication Networks (MERC) and the former Bachelor of Engineering Information and Communication Networks (LERCI) of IST.

**Docker Lisbon**

Create and organize the Docker meetup in Lisbon.

**require(lx)**

Create and organize the Node.js and JavaScript meetup in Lisbon.

**nodeschool Lisbon**

Create and organize the nodeschool workshops in Lisbon.

**Meteor Lisbon**

Create and organize the Meteor meetup in Lisbon.

## Education

**2015 - M.Sc. in Communication Networks Engineering. Technical University of Lisbon, Portugal**

- Majoring in Cloud Computing, P2P Networks and Mobile Applications.
- M.Sc. Thesis - Developed the world’s first DHT for the Browser based on the Chord P2P Algorithm and using WebRTC as the layer of transport - https://github.com/diasdavid/webrtc-explorer

**2012 - B.Sc in Communication Networks Engineering. Technical University of Lisbon, Portugal**

- Specializing in computer science, TCP/IP networks, distributed systems and information security.

## M.Sc. Thesis

browserCloud.js - A federated community cloud served by a P2P overlay network on top of the web platform

Grid Computing has been around since the 90’s, its fundamental basis is to use idle resources in geographically distributed systems in order to maximize their efficiency, giving researchers access to computational resources to perform their jobs (e.g. studies, simulations, rendering, data processing, etc). This approach quickly grew into non Grid environments, causing the appearance of projects such as SETI@Home or Folding@Home, leveraging volunteered shared resources and not only institution-wide data centers as before, giving the birth of Public Computing.

Today, after having volunteering computing as a proven concept, we face the challenge of how to create a simple, effective, way for people to participate in such community efforts and even more importantly, how to reduce the friction of adoption by the developers and researchers to use and provide these resources for their applications. This thesis explores and proposes novel ways to enable end user machines to communicate, using recent Web technologies such as WebRTC, creating a simple API that is familiar to those used to develop applications for the Cloud, but with resources provided by a community and not by a company or institution.

Dissertation: https://github.com/diasdavid/thesis.browserCloud.js
Project: https://github.com/diasdavid/project.browserCloud.js

## Awards and Honors 

**2012 Richard E. Merwin Award by IEEE Computer Society**

For demonstrating outstanding involvement in IEEE Computer Society, for Academic
Excellence and for Student Leadership.

**2011 IEEE Webpage Contest**

1st Place of IEEE Region 8 (EMEA) Webpage Contest and 3rd Place IEEE Global Webpage Contest.

**2011 Microsoft**

1st Place at Windows Phone App Code Camp by Microsoft in 2011.

**2011 BET - Bring Entrepreneurs Together**

2nd Place with honorable award at Google Case Study Competition in BET24 Entrepreneurs Challenge.

## Classes Taught

**2015 & 2016 Modern Web Development**

**2015 Browser P2P Applications with WebRTC**

**2014 & 2015 Node.js and Web Application Development Security**

**2012 High School 2.0 Program**

## Endeavours (projects created, contributed, involved)

**2012 Delta APP**

Delta App was an event thought to join 3 different backgrounds - "Managers"/Developers and Designers - in a team to develop an App. It had three phases:

1- 24 hours non-stop: To create teams, develop an idea and pitch the 1st draft for the app;
2- Development of the business idea for 2 weeks + Mentoring from the judges of the events' pitches;
3- Final Pitching Event - The winners, "Peting", have won a trip to Silicon Valley.

The 24 hours non-stop event started with 60 people, 20 per background, that have joined in 20 teams. They have received inspiration from great speakers like Miguel Gonçalves, who co-organized the event, or Zeinal Bava, the former CEO of Portugal Telecom. The Contestants have learned a lot through many different workshops. After these talks and workshops they have developed their first drafts for their business ideas which they've pitched in the end of the first event.

On the Final Pitching Event: Only 13 out of the 20 teams have survived. But all the development (during two weeks) of the surviving teams' business plans and their final business ideas (that sometimes changed) exceeded the expectations of the judges of the competition.

**Node Security Project**

**Node.js Core**

**IEEE TISP & TISP 2.0**

**IEEE Academic**

**Computer Society Trainers Program**

**NodeCopterLX 2013**

**Google DevFest Portugal 2013**

**Node Summit 2013**

**Container Camp 2014, 2015**

**Node Knockout 2013**

**IEEE madC**

**Kairos**

## Open Source

every open source project contributed in life



## Publications and Talks

- Jan 2016 | ArcticJS - JavaScript for Higher Education
- Dec 2015 | Node.js Interactive - Stellar Module Management
- Nov 2015 | NodeConf Barcelona - Distributed first, Developing Web Applications with IPFS
- Jun 2015 | MediterraneaJS - Understanding the lifecycle of a community
- May 2015 | Data Terra Nemo, the P2P Conf - webrtc-explorer, distributed browser computing platform using volunteered shared resources
- Feb 2015 | OpoJS - Resource Discovery for the Web Platform on top of a P2P Overlay Network powered by WebRTC
- Jul 2014 | TriConf - Why, when and how LXJS Started - Empowering communities through open source
- Apr 2014 | JSConf Brazil - Securing Node.js Applications by the community and for the community

## Certifications

**Training for Animators and Field Monitors for Vacation Camps**

RUN&SLIDE, License 509534457
Apri 2012

**Workshop Android Hands On**

Opensoft Soluções Informáticas, Lda, License Ref: 52
May 2010

**IEEE Teacher In-Service Program (TISP)**

IEEE Educational Activities Board
Nov 2010

**Linux Operating System**

NPGFC-IST, License CCPFC/ENT-ES-0435/08
May 2010

## Other writtings

- http://blog.daviddias.me/2016/02/09/javascript-for-higher-education
- http://blog.daviddias.me/2015/12/08/stellar-module-management
- http://blog.daviddias.me/2015/11/27/ipscend
- http://blog.daviddias.me/2015/09/07/idempotent-encoder-decoder
- http://blog.daviddias.me/2015/04/18/streams-applied-dirbuster
- http://blog.daviddias.me/2015/03/22/enter-webrtc-explorer
- http://blog.daviddias.me/2014/12/20/webrtc-ring
- Docker workshop Feb 2014 http://blog.daviddias.me/2014/02/01/get-your-feet-wet-with-docker

## Hobbies

**Capoeira**

**Scuba Diver**

- 2014 | PADI Open Water Scuba Diver by Haliotis

**Forró**

**Video Recording Editing**

Conference Talk Video recording

**Guitar**

**Skimboarding**
